---
layout: page
title: Descending control of flight 
description: discovering the neural circuits underlying flight control
img: assets/img/lollipop.jpg # change image here
importance: 1
category: work
---

<!-- <div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-8 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include video.liquid path="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ebl5bV6X9bc?si=JSyr_oSlFrt3S8sP&amp;start=2681" width=1120 height=560 autoplay=true class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true %}
    </div>
</div> -->

<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ebl5bV6X9bc?si=JSyr_oSlFrt3S8sP&amp;start=2681" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
<br>
<br>
Flies can execute impressive aerial maneuvers in only tens of milliseconds with remarkably subtle changes to wing motion. This behavior requires a nervous system that can process and send sensory information to downstream motor effectors rapidly and efficiently. I study a specific class of neurons called descending neurons which--although relatively few in number--are solely responsible for the transmission of information from the brain to the appropriate flight motor centers in the ventral nerve cord. In order to study the descending control of flight, I use optogenetics to activate specific classes of descending neurons while measuring the resulting changes in wing kinematics as captured by three high-speed videos.

<!-- to add name to gif add name in text box, click on selection, edit>Draw apply all -->


<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/video1_name.gif" title="side view" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/video2_name.gif" title="side view" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/video3_name.gif" title="top view" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Flies flap their wings ~200 times per second, so recording their wing motion requires a very fast camera! Above are movies recorded at 15kHz showing three different angles of the same wingbeat.
</div>

We can precisely measure the changes in wing motion induced by optogenetic activation using a pipeline of convolutional neural networks and optimization for markerless 3D pose estimation.  To then predict how these changes in wing motion translate to aerodynamic effects, we replay these same wing kinematics on a dynamically scaled robotic model of the fly wing and measure the resulting forces and torques generated by the wing motion.  

<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-8 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include video.liquid path="assets/img/robofly.mp4" autoplay=true loop=true class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true %}
    </div>
</div>


Finally, in order to record the real-time, natural neural activity of descending neurons, we image these cells using a two-photon microscope while flies fly in a simulated flight arena with visual stimuli presentation.  This suite of techniques allow us to trace the neural circuits underlying flight from the sensory to motor periphery. 


   
    

